So to begin with we need a character.
And what I've done is I've created a character here in GIMP and I'm calling him a teen goblin.
I don't know why.
I just want to do a teen goblin.
I want him to be kind of tough looking but also kind of cute like he's still innocent and not quite
grown up yet.
So I have him here in Gimp.
GIMP if you don't know is a great image manipulation program that is similar to Adobe Photoshop but
it's completely free.
You can download Gimp you see here at gimp dot org and I can bring up the Web site here.
Here we go.
You can download Gimp for just about any operating system and start drawing and painting and manipulating
images all for free.
So what I've done here is I've created my character and I've got him in different layers here so I can
turn the layers off and on for the different parts of the character and what we'll be doing is will
be cutting out the front and the side views to take into blender to use as reference images.
Now of course I'm also going to be using blender which as you probably already know is a free 3-D animation
suite of tools you can get that at Blender dot org right over here.
All you got to do is click here and download it.
Here it is free to use free to download and you can get it for just about any operating system you might
imagine.
Now if you want to follow along on my progress here as I go you can download this image here at my Web
site at Deren Lyle dotcom.
Now if you go to the home page here and then go to free tutorials you can click on this and then if
you scroll down here to this little link it says you can find reference images and scene files if you
click here.
You'll be able to then download this team goblin character the download file is here.
So this is actually the gimp file so to open this you will need to download and install GIMP on your
computer.
So let's start cutting the front and side views out here to bring him to Blender.
Let's get the front view first.
I'm going to come over here and hide the various layers that are in here except for this one front view.
And I'm going to select that front view in the layers panel over here and I'll go to edit copy.
And now I'm going to go to Edit Paste as a new image and if I do that it will create a new image exactly
as big as the copied image.
So I'm going to zoom out a bit with the minus key on the keyboard here and there it is.
So I will call this front view and let's go back and get the side view.
So I'll come back over here.
Hide the front view turn on the side view select it and then I'll go to edit copy and then I'll come
back over here to this new image and go to Edit Paste.
And there he is now in GIMP when you paste a layer where you paste an image into a document.
It gives you this floating selection pasted layer.
And what that is it's kind of a temporary layer and you have to anchor it to something so you could
anchor it to this existing layer.
Or you could create a new layer for it to be anchored to.
I don't want to combine it with this when I want to keep them separate.
So what I'll do is all right click on this and choose two new layer.
And now that will give that its own layer in the document.
So I call this side view.
So now I have my front view and my side view ready to be saved out.
And one thing I want to do is make sure that they're aligned properly.
I want the feet and the eyes and the nose et cetera to be lined up between the side view and the front
view.
So what I'm going to do is turn the opacity down here I'm going to click.
I'm going to hover right over here and the opacity and drag this down some so that I can see through
that side view and you can see the eyes were a little bit off so I'm going to zoom in and click out
here and press the Z key and click and drag here to zoom in and then I'm going to come over here to
move to all or the AM key.
I'm just going to take the arrow keys on the keyboard and move it over so that the nose and the eyes
are kind of lined up so I'm thinking something like that.
I mean granted my drawing isn't perfect just not completely aligned but if I can get the bottom of the
nose and maybe the mouth lined up like this as well as the bottom of the eyes.
I think that might be good.
Now the ear isn't lined up and that's OK I'm not too worried about that but it's the nose in the eyes
that I'm concerned with here.
So now that I've got that lined up I'm going to press shift to constrain it and then click and drag
it back over here like that.
So it's more in the center of the image.
And now to zoom back out I'm going to press shift commander control J to zoom out to full screen there.
I'll bring the opacity back up to 100 percent.
And there he is.
So now I know that they're pretty well lined up.
I mean you can see that the belt isn't quite right.
The feet are pretty good.
Of course the hands and the arms are separate pieces in the drawing.
But it looks to me like the eyes and the nose are lined up and at least for me for now that's kind of
my main concern.
All right.
So now that I have these lined up I'm going to hide one of the layers here so I'll just deal with the
front view.
So now what I'm going to do is save these images out so that I can bring them into blender as reference
images.
So now I'll just go to file export as and I will call this gobbler in front view and it's automatically
going to save it out as a P and G.
That's actually what I want.
You could choose from different file types here but PAGG is exactly what I want here so I'll save this
all exported as a P and G and click export.
Now I want to do the side view so I'll turn that on.
Turn the front view off.
Go to a file export as and save this as the goblin side view.
And there we go.
So now let's go back into blender and bring those in here in Blender.
We don't need all of this stuff we don't need the camera the point like the cube at this point in time
so I'll just hit the A key to select all.
Hit the x key and delete.
Now if you're brand new to Blender I have a couple of resources for you on my web site if you go to
the home page you can see that you've got a blender Quickstart Guide here.
It's a 25 page PTF file that goes over the essential tools and concepts of Blender that will kind of
help you get up to speed quickly so you can follow along.
In addition if you go to my YouTube channel and scroll all the way down to the bottom here you've got
this blender Quickstart Guide here as well a 10 minute video that goes over much the same things.
So if you get that blender Quickstart Guide PTF as well as watch this 10 minute video.
You should be up to speed and ready to go to follow along in this series.
All right.
So let's go back to blender and what I'm going to do is bring in that front and side view into blender
so that we can see it when we're in the front and inside orthographic views.
Blender has a lot of different screen lay out here.
One is the default which we see here.
We've got U-V editing an animation and motion tracking we've got a lot of different screen layouts that
come with Blendr But what I'd like to do is create a new one for my character images so I'm going to
come up here and click the plus icon to create a new one it'll say default 0 0 1 and I want to call
this character images now whatever I'd do to this screen layout it will save it to this screen layout
selection rather than changing my default view.
So I want to keep the default and have this one to change.
So what I'll do is go to this little tab right up here in the very right hand corner and click and drag
and drag out a new window.
For now I'd like to get rid of this panel and this panel and to do that I'm going to hover over the
screen and press the T key on the keyboard and that will get rid of that and the T key over here and
that will get rid of that.
So now I've got two of the exact same windows here.
Now I can change the view or the camera that I'm viewing this through like coming down here to the View
menu.
And you've got the the top camera the bottom front back right left etc. and what I want is the right
camera.
Notice that it has a shortcut key the three key on the number pad.
So if I click that it will go to the right camera and notice that it says right.
Perspective there are perspective cameras and orthographic cameras and the orthographic cameras give
you a very flat two dimensional view of the scene.
And for this two dimensional reference image I want an orthographic camera so I'm going to come back
down here to view and I can switch from the perspective to the orthographic camera with this menu item
or the 5 key on the number pad.
So I click that and there we have our right view.
Now I want to come over here and do the same thing for the front view.
So I could come down here to the view menu but for the front I've got numpad one here so I'm just going
to press the one key on the numpad and then I'm going to press the five key on the numpad and there
we go.
Now we've got front and right orthographic views and these changes have just been applied to this screen
layout that I created.
If I go back to the default it's still the same.
All right.
So let's go back to here.
Now if you don't have a number pad on your keyboard you can always emulate the number pad with the numbers
on the keyboard by going to file user preferences and in the user preferences you can turn on emulate
numpad and this will make the numbers on the keyboard act like the numbers on the number pad and then
just be sure and click save user settings.
All right so now let's bring in those images to do that.
I need to bring up the properties panel for each of these windows and to do that I'll press the end
key on the keyboard and if I scroll down I have this area called background images here and I'll roll
that out.
And click add image and now if I scroll down I have this area where I can open an image and bring it
in.
Now this one is only going to be for the right view.
So I'm going to choose this all views menu choose right.
Now and click open.
And here they are so I will choose the side view right here click open and then we have our character.
Now I can adjust the opacity here make him more opaque or more transparent.
So I think I want to take him down to about point 3 for the opacity.
Now let's do the same thing over here for the front view.
We're going to press the end key.
I'm going to hover over this view press the end key to bring up the properties panel.
Scroll down.
Roll out the background image section and click add image.
And for this I want it to be the front for you.
Where's the front.
Here it is.
And click open and bring in this front view.
Then there is.
Now I'm going to adjust the opacity again I put the other one at point three.
Here we go.
All right.
So now I have my characters in the front and right orthographic views.
Notice that if I go back to the default view I don't see it which is fine.
In fact I like it that way so that the images don't distract me when I'm looking at it in the perspective
view.
So let's go back here once again to the character images and what I'd like to do is bring him up so
he's actually standing on the grid here this red and green line signify this grid space here so I want
those images standing on the grid so that as I create the character it will be standing on the grid
as well.
So I'm going to go back to character images and I want to adjust this x and y axis.
So even though the three dimensional axes here say Y and Z or x and z here in the two dimensional plane
we're going to be dealing with X to the left and the right and Y up and down.
So I'm just going to click and drag in this view and notice that it scrolls in the X and I don't want
to do that.
I want the Y.
So I'm going to put zero back in this field and I'm going to come over here and hover over the y axis
and click and drag and move him up.
So I want him to be right about there.
I've got four point eight.
Let's try five.
That's a little too much.
How about four point nine.
There we go.
So now I've got that foot pretty much right on the ground playing.
I'll come over here and for the y axis I'll go ahead and type in four point nine as well like that.
Now if you're using your own characters the numbers here may be different.
So I'm going to zoom out with the scroll wheel here on the mouse and I'm going to press shift and the
middle mouse button to pan or drag him up and down like that.
I can zoom in with the scroll wheel on the mouse.
And there we go.
So now I've got my character standing on the ground plane in the front and side views.
And one thing I want to do is make sure this character is actually aligned right down the center of
the view here so I'm going to zoom in with the scroll wheel and press shift and middle mouse button
and click and drag down some.
So let's take a look at him here.
He looks like he's a little bit off center.
So maybe if I use this x axis I can get him more right down the center.
And it looks like if I just click these arrows and take it to point one it looks like that's more directly
down the center.
So let's go with that.
All right so I'm going to zoom out with the scroll wheel again press shift to middle mouse button to
drag him up a bit and there we go.
Our front and side views are going to press the End key and the key to get out of those views and we
will use these as our reference images as we build our character.
So in the next video we'll create the base geometry for our characters so that we can begin using Blender's
sculped tools.